# Initial Proposal for a DecisionVis MOEA

## Algorithmic Elements

We propose a MOEA using the following well-established algorithmic elements:

* steady-state (EA Handbook 262)
* tournament selection (EA Handbook 256)
* UM (EA Handbook 285)
* SBX and PM (Deb '99)
* ε-dominance archiving (Laumans et al 2002 (proposal), Deb 2003
  (εMOEA)
* restarts (Coello '01 μGA)
* adaptive population sizing (Kollat '05 εNSGAII)
* nondomination sorting (Deb 2002 NSGAII)

## Asynchronous Implementation

This implementation will be _asynchronous_, meaning that evolution
consists of two main procedures: _generate individual_ and _receive
evaluated individual_.

The _generate individual_ procedure produces a new population member
for evaluation.

The _receive evaluated individual_ procedure receives an evaluated
individual and updates the state of the population accordingly.

Notably, the asynchronous approach relies on an external "main loop"
to manage the generation, evaluation, and return of population
members.  This allows users a great deal of latitude to:

* Return population members that were not generated by the MOEA.
    - Enables the reuse of solutions produced by previous optimization
      runs.
    - Enables the addition of local search to improve solutions
* Determine when and how the MOEA state will be captured.
* Pause and continue optimization runs.
* Parallelize the evaluation of population members (if model
  evaluation is expensive).

## Python Language

The Python programming language is

* highly productive
* broadly supported
* widely adopted by the scientific community
* well known to the implementors

## License

The proposed MOEA will be licensed and released to the public under
the GNU General Public License (version 3).

DecisionVis, as the copyright holder, will reserve the right to
incorporate this MOEA in its own proprietary offerings, as well as to
license this MOEA to others under different terms.

## Comment

We expect that this dual licensing situation will discourage
reciprocal contributions from outside the company, although under the
terms of the GPL others are free to take the algorithm and modify it
for their own purposes.  Our goal in adopting these terms is to put
out a simple, modern, easy-to-use MOEA and thereby encourage adoption.
We've tried selling MOEAs, but nobody's buying.  Instead we hope that
broad adoption, particularly with our name attached, will bring us
customers with interesting problems to collaborate on.
